PR review guide (aka "Code Review") (#74)
spacetelescope/style-guides: guides/git-pr-review.md

  and 5, so they can confirm that the changes make sense from a science
  point-of-view. 

* The package maintainer / GitHub repository maintainer will want to make sure
  that each of these steps are done but may not need to be the one doing each
  step.  The package maintainer will be the one who will want to confirm the code
  to be merged fits the framework of existing code, is correct and the
  documentation and tests are sufficient. 

### PR Review Steps

#### 1. Review the PR and Issue

Read through the PR to see what was done and the discussion people have had on
there. Confirm the GitHub "fixes" or "closes" magic words are used to
automatically close the related issues.

Then, if there is a corresponding issue or issues, read through the original
content of the issue and then read through the discussion and clarification.

Many times there are going to be other "requirements" or clarifications that 
might influence the PR beyond the original issue text.

If the PR does not appear to fix/implement the issue or the description is not
clear in the PR text, then stop here and ask questions. Document any new
understanding or thoughts in the PR for future reference.

> #### 2. Review the code

Reviewer: Somewhere in this section you probably want to link to the Python code-specific style guide (currently that's just Python - https://github.com/spacetelescope/style-guides/blob/master/guides/python.md ), right?  I.e., "check that it matches the ST style recommendations"?

(More review later, but this popped up at a first glance)

Author: I added some text to that point.

# GitHub Pull Request Review ("Code Review")

> ### Introduction

Author: I copied another style guide that went from one `#` to `###`s. :)  Copy-and-paste.

A code review for a GitHub Pull Request (PR) could mean many things but likely
it should consist of a few steps that are beyond just "reviewing the code".
Below are some steps that could be used as a guide in the review of a PR.
Remember, too, that a review should respectful and that we have 
a [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/spacetelescope/style-guides/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) 
that we follow.

### Who Should Review
There are several groups of people who might be interested in reviewing a PR.

> Members of the development team, package maintainer (GitHub repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Engineers in a development team, package maintainers (GitHub repository
```

maintainer), or scientists / product owners.  Each group may have a different
focus on the steps below, for example:

* The development team might focus more on Steps 2 and 3 (obviously with
  knowledge of Step 1).

* A scientist, content specialist, or product owner might focus more on Steps 4
  and 5, so they can confirm that the changes make sense from a science
  point-of-view. 

* The package maintainer / GitHub repository maintainer will want to make sure
  that each of these steps are done but may not need to be the one doing each
  step.  The package maintainer will be the one who will want to confirm the code
  to be merged fits the framework of existing code, is correct and the
  documentation and tests are sufficient. 

> 

Author: I'll add here.

### PR Review Steps

#### 1. Review the PR and Issue

Read through the PR to see what was done and the discussion people have had on
there. Confirm the GitHub "fixes" or "closes" magic words are used to

> automatically close the related issues.

Author: 42... nice, though a book reference not movie, well, not secondarily a movie reference. :)

Then, if there is a corresponding issue or issues, read through the original
content of the issue and then read through the discussion and clarification.

Many times there are going to be other "requirements" or clarifications that 
might influence the PR beyond the original issue text.

If the PR does not appear to fix/implement the issue or the description is not
clear in the PR text, then stop here and ask questions. Document any new
understanding or thoughts in the PR for future reference.

#### 2. Review the code

Look through the code and see if it appears to answer the question laid out by

> the PR and Issue text. It should answer only the issue and not other bugs etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It should answer only the issue and not other bugs etc.
```
(Goes with the above suggestion)

Other ones should be a in a separate PR (which will make it easier for review,
and bisecting if a bug is added and found later on). 

> The code should also be reviewed for style, maintainability, and to make sure

Reviewer: Maybe this can be merged into the next paragraph? And maybe the second sentence of this paragraph is unnecessary here and can be instead moved to the code style guide?

Author: I would like to leave this here, too, but I merged it with the following paragraph.

it fits into the framework of the code in the GitHub repository. It would be
better to maintain similarity to current code unless there is a need to make
changes to the repository code framework.  

Python code should follow the [Python style
guide](https://github.com/spacetelescope/style-guides/blob/master/guides/python.md).

> Also, automated PEP 8 style checking should happen as part of the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, check that the code follows the PEP8 style (within the guidelines outlined in the above style guide).  Where possible, such style checking is best implemented using CI / automated test infrastructure for a first pass, with the reviewer just checking that it makes sense. 
 This is not always possible, in which case it is the reviewer's responsibility to whatever extent is practical.
```

Note that this is a replacement for the following two lines as well.

[CI / automated test infrastructure](https://github.com/spacetelescope/style-guides/issues/73).

If the code appears to have bugs or implementation issues, then stop now and
ask for clarification from the author (and maybe get them to make code

> changes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changes). Where possible, use in-line comments in the GitHub "Files changed" interface to give the PR author specific and actionable suggestions.
```

#### 3. Check and Run the tests

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Note: all packages following these style guides should use continuous integration (CI) as thoroughly as practical to simplify the testing process.  On GitHub/public projects, this usually means Travis-CI, whereas internal projects use Jenkins.  In general these both address the same core problem: automatically running unit tests to ensure the changes a PR introduces do not break code. For more details, see [a forthcoming CI style guide](https://github.com/spacetelescope/style-guides/issues/8).

```

Note that the style guide on CI does *not yet exist*.  Not my wording above is about #8.  If this wording is accepted we should update the link in the PR that implements #8

1. Confirm the tests are running and passing in the CI. Be mindful that green

>    check marks can be false positives, so read the logs to be sure before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   check marks can be false positives, so it's often wise to read some of the logs to be sure before
```

This can be a big time sink and discourages people from making thorough test matricies, so I'm not sure we want to be *too* strong on this.

   merge. Did you check the jobs that are allowed to fail? Are they failing for

>    the right things?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the right reasons?
```

2. Are other tests needed based on new functionality OR to check for the bug

>    from the issue. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   from the issue? If so they need to be included in the same PR as the code.
```

If the tests do not run or fail, well, definitely stop now and get the author
to fix the code so the tests pass.  

If more tests are needed, request them from the author.

#### 4. Review the documentation

Read through the relevant portion of the documentation to see if it is
sufficient or correct given the changes in the PR.  Does more documentation
need to be added? Does the existing documentation need to be modified based on
the PR? Can I come back in 6 months and understand how things work from this
documentation? Can a new user or maintainer understand it?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If the code is in Python, are there docstrings for all new classes and functions?  Do they follow the style expected in the package and appear in any built documentation? (Not all packages require this, but any that do you must ensure they are included and correct.) If it is not Python, is the correct API documentation format followed?

```

Is a change log entry necessary? If yes, was it included in the right place?

#### 5. Run the branch locally

> Fetch the branch from GitHub and run the tests locally. If there are GUI

Reviewer: I think this requirement is a bit heavy handed, so I'm suggesting the below as a lighter-weight alternative.  I agree that the GUI case it's worth emphasizing, though!

```suggestion

Local testing is not always necessary if you are confident that the changes the PR introduced are thoroughly tested via the CI tests (either via new tests in the PR or existing tests). However, some features, like GUI elements, are not easily tested via CI, or CI may not yet be set up in the package you are working on.  In that case you must  run tests locally. To do this you will need to fetch the branch from GitHub, merge it with master in a local testing branch, and run the tests (manual or automatically) yourself. 
If there are GUI
```

Author: I made the change. 

But, I will say that there have been several times that some developers work in an unclean environment with several pieces of work happening at the same time (not using branches quite right) and so when their branch is brought down to a clean environment things don't work. So, I'll accept your wording, and this is a guide, but I think there is a lot to be said for testing locally.

> # Github PR Review ("Code Review")

Reviewer 2: Is it "Github" or "GitHub"? I feel like we need to be consistent on this.
```suggestion
# GitHub PR Review ("Code Review")
```

Author: fixed

### Introduction

> A code review for a Github PR could mean many things but likely it should consist of a few steps that are beyond just "reviewing the code". Below are some steps that could be used as a guide in the review of a PR. Remember, too, that a review should respectful and that we have a [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/spacetelescope/style-guides/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) that we follow.

Author: good point

> ### Audience

Author: k

> There are several groups of people who might be interested in reviewing a PR.

Author: ok

> For example, members of the development team, package maintainer (Github repo maintainer), or scientists / product owners.  Each group may have a different focus on the steps below.  For example, the development team might focus more on Steps 2 and 3 (obviously with knowledge of Step 1).

Author: k. 
and now I have only one example  ( :) )

> A scientist, content specialist or product owner might focus more on Steps 4 and 5, so they can confirm that the changes make sense from a science point-of-view. 

Author: I'll give in, though I am not that type of comma person. ;)

The package maintainer / Github repo maintainer will want to make sure that each of these steps are done but may not need to be the one doing each step. The package maintainer will be the one who will want to confirm the code to be merged fits the framework of existing code, is correct and the documentation and tests are sufficient. 

### PR Review Steps

#### 1. Review the PR and Issue

Read through the PR to see what was done and the discussion people have had on there.

Then, if there is a corresponding issue or issues, read through the original content of the issue and then read through the discussion and clarification.

Many times there are going to be other "requirements" or clarifications that my influence the PR beyond the original issue text.

> If the PR does not appear to fix/implement the issue, then stop here and ask questions.

Author: I added a comment in... with regard to this.

#### 2. Review the code

> Look through the code and see if it appears to answer the question laid out by the PR and Issue text. It should answer only the issue and not other bugs etc. Other ones should be a in a separate PR (which will make it easier for review, and bisecting if a bug is added and found later on). 

Author: I can add in a comment of "if two disparate changes are made in this PR then it should be documented as to why they are in the same PR"  ??

> The code should also be reviewed for style and to make sure it fits into the framework of the code in the Github repo. It would be better to maintain similarity to current code unless there is a need to make changes to the repo code framework.  Automated PEP8 style checking should happen as part of the CI / automated test infrastructure.  (ref: https://github.com/spacetelescope/style-guides/issues/73)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code should also be reviewed for style and to make sure it fits into the framework of the code in the Github repo. It would be better to maintain similarity to current code unless there is a need to make changes to the repository code framework.  Automated PEP 8 style checking should happen as part of the CI / automated test infrastructure.  (ref: https://github.com/spacetelescope/style-guides/issues/73)
```

Author: changed

> If the code appears to have bugs or implementation issues, then stop now and ask for clarification from the writer (and maybe get them to make code changes).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the code appears to have bugs or implementation issues, then stop now and ask for clarification from the author (and maybe get them to make code changes).
```
Also:
* Will this bug fix introduce more bugs in the future? Is it easy to maintain by others?

Author: added about maintainability.

#### 3. Check and Run the tests

> 1. Confirm the tests are running in the CI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Confirm the tests are running and passing in the CI. Be mindful that green check marks can be false positives, so read the logs to be sure before merge. Did you check the jobs that are allowed to fail? Are they failing for the right things?
```

> 1. Are other tests needed based on new functionality OR to check for the bug from the issue. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Are other tests needed based on new functionality OR to check for the bug from the issue. 
```

Author: fixed

> If the tests do not run, well, definitely stop now and get them to fix the code so the tests run.  

Reviewer 2: A test can run but not pass. This clarifies the expectations.
```suggestion
If the tests failed, well, definitely stop now and get the author to fix the code so the tests pass.  
```

> If more tests are needed, request more tests from the PR author.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If more tests are needed, request them from the author.
```
And even tests are provided and passing:
* Is it needed? (This is the opposite problem as no test provided.)
* Is it at the right place? Sometimes, author adds a test without understanding the broader test organization in the repository nor have knowledge of some test classes or helper functions that can be utilized.
* Is it efficient? For example, can you test with smaller sample size or re-use some other existing objects? We don't want tests take too long to run for no reason.

Author: Well, this is a guide. I think it is better to have people thinking about adding tests than not. It might be the repo maintainer that will have more context about the overall test breadth and time.

#### 4. Review the documentation

> Read through the relevant portion of the documentation to see if it is sufficient given the changes in the PR.  Does more documentation need to be added? Does the existing documentation need to be modified based on the PR?

Reviewer 2: Documentation here covers both in-code comments and user-facing text. If documentation provides code snippets, those snippets should undergo the same review process as a code review.
```suggestion
Read through the relevant portion of the documentation to see if it is sufficient or correct given the changes in the PR.  Does more documentation need to be added? Does the existing documentation need to be modified based on the PR? Can I come back in 6 months and understand how things work from this documentation? Can a new user or maintainer understand it?
```

Author: k

> Confirm entries in the CHANGELOG were included.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Is a change log entry necessary? If yes, was it included in the right place?
```

Author: k

> #### 5. Run the branch locally

Reviewer 2: I feel like this should be a whole other documentation that is part of dev guide for the author instead of the reviewer. For example, the Astropy Project expects the PR author to do some due diligence to ensure acceptable product before opening a PR (not that everyone reads it but hey, we tried!) -- http://docs.astropy.org/en/latest/development/workflow/development_workflow.html

Author: This is a broad guide, so I think it should be kept in as a reminder of what needs to happen.  It maybe slightly different for different projects (e.g., specutils may not need someone to pull down the branch and test, but it might be very beneficial for a GUI).

Reviewer: I think I agree with @pllim that this should be detailed further in e.g. #73, but I think that should be a "follow-on" to this one.  That is, this would be "required reading" for whatever implements #73, so if we go that way then this reminder by @brechmos-stsci seems justified.  We just need to be sure to remember to reference back to this section from #73's implementation in that case!

> Fetch the branch from github and run the tests locally. If there are GUI changes, test the GUI related to the code changes and confirm any science results that are not automatically confirmed by automated test.  Running the code locally is important!  For more information see [Procedure for testing open github PRs](https://innerspace.stsci.edu/display/~ddavella/Procedure+for+testing+open+github+PRs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fetch the branch from Github and run the tests locally. If there are GUI changes, test the GUI related to the code changes and confirm any science results that are not automatically confirmed by automated test.  Running the code locally is important!

To see how CubeViz implements this step, please see [Procedure for testing open Github PRs](https://innerspace.stsci.edu/display/~ddavella/Procedure+for+testing+open+github+PRs).
```

Author: Git*H*ub :)
